Welcome back to 3 for databases and views.
We're going to continue right where we left off last time and then fill out all the tumult template
files and then check to see if our site works.
All right let's head back to sex ed..
OK.
Here we are.
Back at the text editor I have a base h team l file.
I'm going to use this to set up my navigation bar and then we'll extend that to the home page.
The ad page delete page and list page.
Let's get started.
For base h T.M. going to collapse that sidebar.
And for this once save say that as an HMO I can type each T.M. and then see this auto completion here
I'm going to add in the bootstrap code for the head.
This is just something I copy and paste from either the provided notes or the bootstrap documentation
pages we previously discussed.
Essentially just the link for the stylesheet and then the jey query source as well.
So I want to set that up.
We're going to do is start by creating a navigation bar in the body.
So I'm going to zoom in here just a little bit and let's start.
We're going to say Nav..
And then for this Nev. we're going to give it a bootstrap class.
Again it's up to you if you want to just copy and paste this.
So it's quite a long class name.
I'm going to just copy and paste from the notes and this is something I just copy and paste it from
Bootstrap documentation.
It's nav bar space nav bar expand Elgie nav bar national light B.G. dash light.
Then once you've done that we're going to do is set a div inside of that NAV and then here will say
the class's nav bar.
Now and then we're going to create some anchor tags with some references.
So here the ref is just going to be a your all for and then some view and the class we're going to give
this incontact will say class is equal to and this class is Nav. dash item space.
Now dash link and then once you've done that we'll have some sort of text here for the actual text that
shows up in the navigation bar.
I'm going to copy this and paste this a couple times for each major page in our Web site.
So we'll have a home page we'll have an add up page a list of pups page in a delete page.
So let's have the first one be home so change the text to be home and we want this to be the URL for
index because if we look back at our adoption site the very first route right here is the index function.
Then the next one is we're going to do as our pup list pup and then delete pup.
So let's head back to base X-amount those in so the text for this one will be add up and then we'll
say this is your L4 add underscore pup and then the next one will be list underscore the text there.
We can just say list of pups.
And then your Earl here is going to be the E-L underscore pup and that will make the text say delete
delete OK save that and then the last thing I want to do is make sure that we set up our block.
So after that allegation bar still in the body I'm going to say create a block and I'm going to call
this block content and let's go ahead and extend it to our home page.
So our home page we're going to say extends Basestar.
H T.M..
And then we're going to set up the block content.
And right now Elisha's put a header one that says welcome.
All right.
Now that we have a working home that each T.M. we want to go ahead and run the site.
But before we do that let's set our flask app environment variable and then actually set up our migrations
as well.
So the first thing I want to do is notice right now I don't have my flask environment activated.
So I will go ahead and do that.
I will say activate and in my case I called it my flask in V I enter and notice my environment is activated.
This is technically optional if you're using everything in your base environment that you don't need
to use a virtual one.
Again go ahead and review the virtual environment lectures for more information on that.
But once we set up our environment what I need to do is set my flask app a say set flask underscore
app equal to and then in my case I called it adoption underscore site pi.
Remember that if you're using Mac OS or Linux The key word is export not Flast or not set.
So let me run that.
So that should set our flask up and the next thing I want to do is say flask D-B in it enter and then
after a little bit it should initiate everything.
So it looks like that's good to go.
And then after that we're going to say flask D-B migrate and then set a message.
So here we're going to say new tables and turn run that.
So now we have a migrations folder created and the last thing I want to do is say flask D.B upgrade
enter and that it should upgrade the tables to now match up with the models now that we've done that
it's time to actually test our script will say Python and then I'm going to run adoption site that PI
enter and I should see it running looks like it's running there.
So we bring it back into the browser and make sure that everything's working.
I'm going to bring it over and then if you bring it over it should look something like this.
We see our navigation bar.
Home output list the pups and the pup.
And if you click on these they should work.
But right now those templates are completely empty so they won't actually lead anywhere.
It's just an empty page but it looks like all our views are connected correctly to our navigation bar.
All right now we're going to continue the work of creating our add up view the list of pup's view and
the view.
So let's go back to the templates and finish that off.
OK let's begin with the ad him.
And remember here we're going to connect the form from our adoption site.
If we scroll down we already have the pup view.
We just need to connect this form.
Remember this form is accepting a name and then it's going to redirect to lists pup.
So let me expand the room just a little bit here and let's work on AD H T.M..
First off I'm going to say extends well we're going to extend from base HMO and then we're going to
set up our block content and let's hit it up with a jumbotron.
Some of this is not very mandatory but just to not look or make it look a little better.
So we have our Jumbotron will create a header here that says have a puppy that needs to be adopted.
Question mark.
Well we'll have them added and we'll say add a new puppy to our database and then we want to insert
the form below.
So we create a whoops a form h t m l and the only thing we need to fill out here we don't need to fill
out the action that redirects being handle on the flask end and we also don't need to worry about the
class unless you want to stylize the form further.
But right here we'll just say the method is post and then we're going to create a hit and tag will save
form hidden underscore tag and then we'll create the form label for the name form name label.
And then right next to it we're going to insert form name and then right after that we're going to say
form thought submit.
All right.
So those are those shape.
And let's actually go back to our home page Tim Page and make it look a little nicer and have it look
more uniform why.
Making the first page also a jumbotron.
So going to grab this welcome in I'm going to put it inside that Jumbotron and save those changes.
OK.
So we have this form for adding let's make sure it actually works.
I'm going to run this again.
So Python adoption page or adoption site.
Let's head over to the browser and make sure it's working.
So here's my page going to refresh.
Now it's in a jumbotron.
If I could add up now I could see this form have a puppy that needs to be adopted added new puppy toward
database name of puppy puppy.
So we're going to set up a list of pups and the pups so you and the Loxley check to make sure it works.
So continuing on next one up is the list pups.
So we'll do a list of all the puppies and kind of the same aspects here we want to make sure we extend
from the base a HTML page will say extends base HMO.
Set up our blocks for the content and they'll we'll make it also on a Jumbotron we'll say jumbo AUPs
jumbotron and then say H-1 here is a list of all available puppies and then we're going to use a little
bit of template formatting we're going to create an ordered list.
And let's look back at the list view
remember here we're sending back puppies where we queried the puppy database for all the puppies so
puppies here is a list of puppies and we're sending it back to the lists h T.M..
So over here we're going to do then is say for pop in that puppies list that sent back will create a
list item for each pup.
So here we're going to see bulleted list of every puppy inside the database.
I'm going to save that.
And then the last video I want to make is that the view essentially is going to be a form that shows
or allows you to fill out what you want to delete.
So I'm going to say extends base h T.M. and it will say block contents.
Let's make a jumbotron.
Class and here we're going to say H-1 did a puppy get adopted.
No say if so what.
If so please fill out their ID to remove them from the database.
OK.
And then we're going to hear is Connect that back with the what's the form.
So we have our form again no need to specify class or action here.
That's pretty much all be handled either by bootstrap or by our flask application.
We'll set this to post and then we're going to say form he didn't tag and make sure that's open close
princes there we're going to say take the form id label and set that next to the form id and then take
it and set up our submit button.
Save that and now we pretty much have all the items connected.
So let's do a very quick run through and make sure that our web sites are actually functioning.
Going to restart this website.
And let's go to the browser.
Here's my home page.
I'm going to zoom in a little more so it's easier for you to read.
Keep in mind as I zoom in that made the actual navigation bar.
So we're going to zoom in.
There we go.
Let's zoom in this and it's at a puppy.
So the name of our puppy the first one.
Let's go ahead and say Rufus boy to click out a puppy.
And now it says here's a list of all available puppies says puppy named Rufus.
Nice.
Looks like it's working.
And Rufus by default should have an idea of one.
To add one more puppy in here.
Let's go ahead and add two more puppies.
We'll say Frankie now I see Rufus and Frankie going to say at a pup and let's say Sammy I'm going to
add a puppy.
So now I have Rufus Frankie and Sammy one two and three and have a quick list of all pups.
That's my list.
Now let's remove one of the puppies.
I'm going to say delete.
Pup said of the puppy get adopted.
Let's imagine the first one got adopted.
So Rufus is going to get adopted.
So I will enter a one here for Rufus to get adopted.
So say one removed puppy and now here's a list of all available puppies.
I only see Frankie and Sammy so Rufus has been adopted and he's been removed from the list of puppies.
So we have full functionality.
We have our home page the ability to add a puppy the ability to see a list of puppies and the ability
to delete puppies.
And that's the main components of any Web site.
You have a home page you have a form that accepts user information.
You have a way of displaying information from your database and then you have a method of removing information
from your database.
These are the key components of any major Web site.
And if you understand this then you pretty much understand how to make any sort of web site.
After that it's just a matter of details of how do you return back a video instead of a list of text
or how to turn back an image or how do you do user authentication.
All of that stuff is just adding onto this main principle idea of being able to have a home page and
stuff through a form retrieve information report it back and then remove information as long as you
understand these key concepts.
You'll have the ability to pretty much make any sort of website you want with class.
All right.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums or I'm going to do now is just a very quick
rundown and review of everything we just did.
So coming back let's take a look at our adoption site but PI what we did here is going to zoom much
a little bit so we can see it clearly.
We have our imports.
We set up replication.
So the configuration as well is the database we have our model which the puppy model.
Then we have our view functions one for the home page one for adding and all these have forms that we
set up here the add form and delete form later on we'll be moving this model to its own models up by
file and then once we set up our functions for the views we just connect them to our templates.
I remember we used a base template that we extend to the other pages.
All right.
That's really the basics.
Make sure you review this code very carefully and have a full understanding of it before continuing
on to the next sections.
We'll see you at the next lecture.